This is the Group Reflection Text

I believe this group is outstanding, having come together fairly organically by placing our names in an available group rather than scouting around looking for people of like interests or in the same town or city. It is our diversity that allows us to present interesting and unique points of view. We have worked well together on common goals. As is evident by the differences in our ideal jobs and the blend of personality types we each bring unique experiences both life and employment to enrich the team. We had some initial issues with GitHub as the invitations to join the newly created organisation appear to have been blocked by RMIT infrastructure, however this was quickly overcome. We had chosen as a group to utilise Microsoft Teams for our online correspondence and by and large that has worked quite well although I would be reluctant to use it in the future as a project management tool. GitHub for the purposes of this assignment has also had a number of constraints as it is not possible to merge a word document or an excel spreadsheet and so we have where practical created text documents, which will then have to be copied into Word to create the final PDF. So a bit of frustration on the duplication of effort. These criticisms you will note are of the tools not anyone of the fabulous team. 
I look forward to working with all my new ‘mates’ on the next team project.
Brian Dean


I really enjoyed working with everybody in this team. All members of my group are very understanding and friendly people who are easy to negotiate with. There were no problems with setting time for conferences, despite the fact that we live in different time zones. I also think that our group did a great job using the Github. Due to the good organization, it was easy to distribute the work among the team members.
I was surprised by apps that our group used for organization and chat. They were really.
Working as a team, I learned that it is essential to be able to express my thoughts freely about different aspects of the project and to be tolerant and respectful to everybody cause these things are significant for successful teamwork.
Daria Sukonnova

I have quite enjoyed the team work this group has shown. Seeing everyone in the group being open to their own project ideas and ideas on presentation have been amazing to witness. 
I have been amazed at everyone’s availabilities and willingness to contribute new ideas. I was surprised with everyone’s involvement even though we all live far from each other. 
Getting to understand the journey each group member has been on to get to this point has been very interesting. 
Being in a group has opened me up to different perspectives within the I.T industry. Allowing me to expand my knowledge base and develop my skillset with team work. 
I believe we can improve with a better project management system, as GitHub has helped in collating our information to a certain degree.
It has not proved to be very useful with communication in the collaboration process. 
We did use Microsoft Teams to improve on communication within the team, but seem to have its own limitations with how posts are organised.
Otherwise, working with this group has been an enjoyable experience and I look forward to working with such a good bunch of people in the future.
