IT Technologies Report – Autonomous Vehicles


What does it do? What is the state of the art of this new technology? What can be done now? What is likely to be able to do be done soon (say in the next 3 years)? What technological or other developments make this possible?

Autonomous Vehicles is the automated process of piloting vehicle using artificial intelligence instead of a person. The state-of-the-art technology of automated vehicles is the implementation of self-driving cars, buses and trucks in society made possible from Machine Learning. Machine learning is the ability for A.I to receive data and be able to make informed decision from the information it has received. This can be done through observational data or from specific instructions given by a developer (Expert System Team 2017). 
Currently machine learning is partially seen through the integration of built-in technologies within vehicles, which have APIs allowing for links to be made with outside hardware such as, the vehicle outputting audio from the mobile phone music playlist. Other methods can be expressed through the use of a camera detector analysing field depth when calculating the distance between the rear of the car and vehicle spot end while reversing. 

As processors are advancing with their architecture, they are becoming smaller and more efficient. A rise with machine learning technology will be seen to become more powerful in its complexity to handle multiple inputs from various sources. This can be seen with the advancement in research and development from major brands such as Intel or Nvidia. It will boast to be a major leap forward for autonomous vehicles function in all of society.

In the general society this allows a major change in areas such as civilian cars and taxis. For civilians it would drastically change how safety operates in each vehicle. Allowing for a reduction in vehicle related accidents for example if a driver is not driving properly it can forcibly take over from the driver and immediately correct any movements, which may cause harm for the person or other drivers. Also, when a driver is speeding, a safety measure can be put in place to have the vehicle reduce speed to match current speed limits. 

On the other hand, since the progression of electric cars is becoming more prominent as a cleaner alternative to petroleum. We will start to see an incredible impact in technological efficiency leading to far less use of carbon emissions in motor vehicles. This can be also said for electric vehicles resulting in autonomous vehicles leveraging this advancement in efficiency to reduce carbon emissions and be hopefully brought in as a new standard. 

For the transportation industry we can see self-driving trucks able to carry large payloads and meet deadlines at a more efficient time than relying on a driver needing regular breaks. This can increase productivity and lower risk within the commercial industry, as it reduces transportation time and the product is kept in the best condition when the delivery has been made. This can be both in between the warehouse or retail store, and retail store to the customer. Ultimately increasing efficiency for companies to earn a bigger profit for less overhead costs. 

In 5 more years, we should start to see autonomous vehicles becoming more common for the average person. Whether it be catching the bus, driving to work or receiving parcels from an online order, no doubt autonomous vehicles will have a much stronger presence in day to day activities. 



What is the likely impact? What is the potential impact of this development? What is likely to change? Which people will be most affected and how? Will this create, replace or make redundant any current jobs or technologies?

As technology advances and the integration of machine learning gives rise to more automated vehicles, the main concern we will run into is the ethical logistics behind the decision-making process for all autonomous vehicles. What will the vehicle deem as the right decision and how can we trust in an object to make the most ethical decision in unexpected situations? These decisions could be pulled from observational data, but then the real questions come into play, how can an autonomous vehicle make critical decisions in situations it has never observed? This will bring about a major impact of safety concerns on the general residential population. A few of these concerns may include, vehicular control, security and integration.

Security is an issue where hacking can be seen to occur often every day without anyone realising it has happened. With technology being more integrated with our daily lives and households, it can prove to show another gateway for hackers to use autonomous vehicles for breaching household security. Using credentials that are either saved on to a mobile device or vehicle to gain access into personal information. Allowing for identity theft or quite possible control the household to further gain security access into areas restricted to the public. For example, a breach in security can be made if the hacker is aware of an individual who holds a high status whether it be in a company or in the government sector. To gather credentials of the individual using the autonomous vehicle to breach the persons home, or if the vehicle is owned by the organisation to then breach security protocols and gain further access. 

Lastly, the job landscape will shift where taxi drivers, bus drivers, truck drivers and possibly other industrial vehicular facilities will no longer be required, as A.I will take over the job. Leading to people working their whole lives for that particular role to be made redundant. There will be a rise in unemployment, however a rise in more expertise roles requiring a person to fill. We will start to see this change further develop into education and the shift will push the next generation to fill in the expertise gap to maintain the change in industry. This impact will take at least 10 years in order to realise, but jeopardize current people’s livelihood who currently work in the transportation industry or general commercial industry who operate such vehicles.

How will this affect you? In your daily life, how will this affect you? What will be different for you? How might this affect members of your family or your friends?

I believe on a personal level it will improve my savings when travelling to where I need to go and saving my time. When Autonomous vehicles have reached efficiency in its decision making it will lead to two avenues reducing in cost and effectiveness. One will be in petrol consumption and the other will be in travelling time. When more vehicles have moved across into automation then it will allow for a synchronisation net to be established for vehicles to smoothly transition to their destination, linking with other vehicles to co-operate in this vehicular flow. The A.I will also add to this by setting up a driving plan and calculate the appropriate speed and stops for the vehicle to function in peak effectiveness and efficiency for the driver to arrive at the destination at a respectable time. This will be based upon speed limitations and vehicle maintenance. 

While there are concerns for security and the potential attack on the A.I function controlling major core systems of the vehicle. The bottom line of this is the ethical proportions of having an autonomous vehicle running on the road and having the A.I component decide what is the right decision to make. This decision-making process can be influenced by a hacker who can input wrong information into the processing component or lead to controlling the vehicle external, bypassing the need for a driver to be present in the vehicle. I feel this is a major concern in my personal life where I do not want some random person manipulating critical systems of the autonomous vehicle, which could inflict damage to me or my family.

The same goes for my family members who may take the vehicle on a trip or simply going grocery shopping. Knowing that the autonomous vehicle is not completely secure is a concern that would linger in my mind. 

References
•	Expert System Team, What is Machine Learning? A definition, weblog, 7 March, viewed 31 December 2019, < https://expertsystem.com/machine-learning-definition/>
